20_1 datagrid docissues: calculateGroupValue, calculateSortValue, sortOrder (#1714)
DevExpress/devextreme-documentation: api-reference/_hidden/GridBaseColumn/calculateSortValue.md

---
---
##### shortDescription

> Calculates custom values to be used in sorting of the column values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Calculates custom values used to sort this column.
```

The value to be used in sorting.

---

> This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values by which to sort this column...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values used to sort this column...
```

    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="Position" // provides column values
                    calculateSortValue="isOnVacation" // provides values used to sort the Position column
                />
            </DataGrid>
        );
    }

    export default App;

---

... or a function that returns such values. In the code below, **calculateSortValue** concatenates the State and City column values to sort the Employee column:

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        var {widgetName} = $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [{
                dataField: "Employee",
                sortOrder: "asc",
                calculateSortValue: function (rowData) {
                    return rowData.State + rowData.City;
                }
            }]
        }).dx{WidgetName}("instance");
    });

##### Angular

    <!-- tab: app.component.html -->
    <dx-{widget-name} ... >
        <dxi-column
            dataField="Employee"
            sortOrder="asc"

>             [calculateSortValue]="sortByStateAndCity">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            [calculateSortValue]="sortByLocation">
```

The value to be used in sorting.

---
This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values by which to sort this column...

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [{
                    dataField: "Position", // provides column values 

>                     calculateSortValue: "isOnVacation" // provides values used to sort the Position column

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                dataField: "Position", // provides column values 
                calculateSortValue: "isOnVacation" // provides values used to sort the Position column
```

The value to be used in sorting.

---
This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values by which to sort this column...

---
##### jQuery

    <!--JavaScript-->$(function() {
        $("#{widgetName}Container").dx{WidgetName}({
            columns: [
                {
                    dataField: "Position", // provides values for the column
                    calculateSortValue: "isOnVacation" // provides values for sorting of the `Position` column
                },

>                 "isOnVacation"

Reviewer: You don't have to add a column to use it's data field as a `calculateSortValue`.

The value to be used in sorting.

---

> This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values by which to sort the column's data...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This property accepts the name of the [data source field](/api-reference/10%20UI%20Widgets/GridBase/1%20Configuration/dataSource.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/#dataSource') that provides values by which to sort this column...
```

        // ...
    })
    

##### Vue

    <!-- tab: App.vue -->
    <template>
        <DxDataGrid ... >
            <DxColumn
                data-field="Position"

>                 calculate-sort-value="isOnVacation"

Reviewer: Add comments from the jQuery and Angular versions.

            />
            <DxColumn
                data-field="isOnVacation"
            />
        </DxDataGrid>
    </template>
    <script>
    import { DxDataGrid, DxColumn } from 'devextreme-vue/data-grid';

    export default {
        components: {
            DxDataGrid,
            DxColumn
        },
        // ...
    }
    </script>

##### React

    <!-- tab: App.js -->
    import React from 'react';
    import DataGrid, { Column } from 'devextreme-react/data-grid';

>     const GroupCell = options => <div>{options.value}</div>;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

    function App() {
        // ...
        return (
            <DataGrid ...>
                <Column
                    dataField="Position"

>                     calculateSortValue="isOnVacation"

Reviewer: Comments

    
---

> To apply the sorting, users have to click the specified column header. If you need to sort data when the UI component loads, set the **columns[]**.[sortOrder]({basewidgetpath}/Configuration/columns/#sortOrder) property in addition.

Reviewer: What's the reason for this addition?

Author: If a user specifies calculateSortOrder for a column, the sorting will be applied only when they click this column's header. To apply the sorting immediately after the component loads, sortOrder should be set.

Reviewer: And calculateSortValue have little to do with it. Let's remove this paragraph.

[note]

- The `this` keyword refers to the column's configuration.

> - If the DataGrid data is [grouped](/concepts/05%20Widgets/DataGrid/45%20Grouping '/Documentation/Guide/UI_Components/DataGrid/Grouping/'), this property does not apply. To sort group rows, use the [calculateGroupValue](/api-reference/_hidden/dxDataGridColumn/calculateGroupValue.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#calculateGroupValue') and [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) properties. Refer to this <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">Github repository</a> for an example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **calculateSortValue** does not apply to group rows. To sort group rows, use the [calculateGroupValue](/api-reference/_hidden/dxDataGridColumn/calculateGroupValue.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#calculateGroupValue')  in addition to **calculateSortValue**. You should also define the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) to specify the contents of group rows. Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">DataGrid - How to apply custom sorting to a grouped column</a>. 
```

[note]

- The `this` keyword refers to the column's configuration.

> - **calculateSortValue** does not affect group rows. To sort them, implement the [calculateGroupValue](/api-reference/_hidden/dxDataGridColumn/calculateGroupValue.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#calculateGroupValue') in addition to **calculateSortValue**. You should also define the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) to apply a custom template for group rows. Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">DataGrid - How to apply custom sorting to a grouped column</a>. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **calculateSortValue** does not affect group rows. To sort them, implement [calculateGroupValue](/api-reference/_hidden/dxDataGridColumn/calculateGroupValue.md '/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#calculateGroupValue') in addition to **calculateSortValue**. You should also define the [groupCellTemplate](/Documentation/ApiReference/UI_Components/dxDataGrid/Configuration/columns/#groupCellTemplate) to apply a custom template for group rows. Refer to the following GitHub repository for an example: <a href="https://github.com/DevExpress-Examples/DataGrid---How-to-apply-custom-sorting-to-a-grouped-column" target="_blank">DataGrid - How to apply custom sorting to a grouped column</a>. 
```

[/note]

#####See Also#####
- [sortingMethod](/api-reference/_hidden/GridBaseColumn/sortingMethod.md '{basewidgetpath}/Configuration/columns/#sortingMethod')

> - columns[].[sortOrder]({basewidgetpath}/Configuration/columns/#sortOrder)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **columns[]**.[sortOrder]({basewidgetpath}/Configuration/columns/#sortOrder)
```

                dataField: "Position",
                sortOrder: "asc",
                calculateSortValue: function (rowData) {
                    const column = this;

>                     if (rowData.Position == "CEO")

Reviewer 3: Replace all == to ===

>                         return column.sortOrder === "asc" ? "aaa" : "zzz"; // CEOs are always displayed at the top

Reviewer 3: It's a workaround. I suggest use:
return 0;
it's more compact and has one magic value instead of 'aaa' and 'zzz'
